README.md, before:

# `C - Simple Shell`

* The **Simple Shell** is part of the Holberton School learning program.
* It inteprets commands entered by the user to execute simple commands.

### Compiler and list of authorized functions
The **Simple Shell** is compiled this way :
```
gcc -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=gnu89 *.c -o simple_shell
```
It is using this version of GCC : *gcc version 9.4.0 (Ubuntu 9.4.0-1ubuntu1~20.04.1)*.
The authorized functions to build the simple shell are the following :
* ```access``` (man 2 access)
* ```chdir``` (man 2 chdir)
* ```close``` (man 2 close)
* ```closedir``` (man 3 closedir)
* ```execve``` (man 2 execve)
* ```exit``` (man 3 exit)
* ```_exit``` (man 2 _exit)
* ```fflush``` (man 3 fflush)
* ```fork``` (man 2 fork)
* ```free``` (man 3 free)
* ```getcwd``` (man 3 getcwd)
* ```getline``` (man 3 getline)
* ```getpid``` (man 2 getpid)
* ```isatty``` (man 3 isatty)
* ```kill``` (man 2 kill)
* ```malloc``` (man 3 malloc)
* ```open``` (man 2 open)
* ```opendir``` (man 3 opendir)
* ```perror``` (man 3 perror)
* ```read``` (man 2 read)
* ```readdir``` (man 3 readdir)
* ```signal``` (man 2 signal)
* ```stat``` (__xstat) (man 2 stat)
* ```lstat``` (__lxstat) (man 2 lstat)
* ```fstat``` (__fxstat) (man 2 fstat)
* ```strtok``` (man 3 strtok)
* ```wait``` (man 2 wait)
* ```waitpid``` (man 2 waitpid)
* ```wait3``` (man 2 wait3)
* ```wait4``` (man 2 wait4)
* ```write``` (man 2 write)

### Compilation and Usage
To use the Simple Shell, clone this repository and compile all the c files in the repository, then run the resulting executable.
```
gcc *.c shell.h -o simple_shell
./simple_shell
```

You can use **Simple Shell** interactively and non-interactively using pipes.
For example, non interactively usage will be this, in the standard shell :
```
$ echo "echo Hello world" | ./simple_shell
Hello world
```
If you execute the **Simple Shell** interactively, run *./simple_shell* and you can execute simple commands, including optionnal arguments.
At the end of each execution, the simple shell displays a new prompt when ready for usage.
If you want to exit the simple shell, simply type *exit* and press Enter.
```
$ ./simple_shell
ls
main.c tokenizer.c envfunctions.c shell.h README.md stringfunctions.c
pwd
/root/holbertonschool-simple_shell
exit
$
```

### Command execution
* The user enters a command in the **Simple Shell** and presses Enter
* **Simple Shell** tokenizes the command using " " as a delimiter. Each token is stored in a double pointer, where the first pointer is the command,
and the others one are arguments to the command.
* If the user entered a command using it's path, like *usr/bin/ls*, **Simple Shell** will search in the mentionned path and try to execute it. If the command exists, it will execute it. If not, it will display an error message.
* If the user simply enters a command like *pwd*, **Simple Shell** will search for it in each directory of the PATH global environment.
If a match is found, it will execute the command, if not, it will display an error message.

### Manpage

To read the Manpage of the simple shell, use :
```
man ./man_1_simple_shell
```

### Bugs
For now there are still memory leaks, we are currently working on debugging them.

### Authors
* Marc-Antoine Vannier <[Marcantoine4581](https://github.com/Marcantoine4581)>
* Thomas Borde <[thomasborde94](https://github.com/thomasborde94)>

Commit message:

added valgrind and manpage sections in readme

README.md, after:

# `C - Simple Shell`

* The **Simple Shell** is part of the Holberton School learning program.
* It inteprets commands entered by the user to execute simple commands.

### Compiler and list of authorized functions
The **Simple Shell** is compiled this way :
```
gcc -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=gnu89 *.c -o simple_shell
```
It is using this version of GCC : *gcc version 9.4.0 (Ubuntu 9.4.0-1ubuntu1~20.04.1)*.
The authorized functions to build the simple shell are the following :
* ```access``` (man 2 access)
* ```chdir``` (man 2 chdir)
* ```close``` (man 2 close)
* ```closedir``` (man 3 closedir)
* ```execve``` (man 2 execve)
* ```exit``` (man 3 exit)
* ```_exit``` (man 2 _exit)
* ```fflush``` (man 3 fflush)
* ```fork``` (man 2 fork)
* ```free``` (man 3 free)
* ```getcwd``` (man 3 getcwd)
* ```getline``` (man 3 getline)
* ```getpid``` (man 2 getpid)
* ```isatty``` (man 3 isatty)
* ```kill``` (man 2 kill)
* ```malloc``` (man 3 malloc)
* ```open``` (man 2 open)
* ```opendir``` (man 3 opendir)
* ```perror``` (man 3 perror)
* ```read``` (man 2 read)
* ```readdir``` (man 3 readdir)
* ```signal``` (man 2 signal)
* ```stat``` (__xstat) (man 2 stat)
* ```lstat``` (__lxstat) (man 2 lstat)
* ```fstat``` (__fxstat) (man 2 fstat)
* ```strtok``` (man 3 strtok)
* ```wait``` (man 2 wait)
* ```waitpid``` (man 2 waitpid)
* ```wait3``` (man 2 wait3)
* ```wait4``` (man 2 wait4)
* ```write``` (man 2 write)

### Compilation and Usage
To use the Simple Shell, clone this repository and compile all the c files in the repository, then run the resulting executable.
```
gcc *.c shell.h -o simple_shell
./simple_shell
```

You can use **Simple Shell** interactively and non-interactively using pipes.
For example, non interactively usage will be this, in the standard shell :
```
$ echo "echo Hello world" | ./simple_shell
Hello world
```
If you execute the **Simple Shell** interactively, run *./simple_shell* and you can execute simple commands, including optionnal arguments.
At the end of each execution, the simple shell displays a new prompt when ready for usage.
If you want to exit the simple shell, simply type *exit* and press Enter.
```
$ ./simple_shell
ls
main.c tokenizer.c envfunctions.c shell.h README.md stringfunctions.c
pwd
/root/holbertonschool-simple_shell
exit
$
```

### Command execution
* The user enters a command in the **Simple Shell** and presses Enter
* **Simple Shell** tokenizes the command using " " as a delimiter. Each token is stored in a double pointer, where the first pointer is the command,
and the others one are arguments to the command.
* If the user entered a command using it's path, like *usr/bin/ls*, **Simple Shell** will search in the mentionned path and try to execute it. If the command exists, it will execute it. If not, it will display an error message.
* If the user simply enters a command like *pwd*, **Simple Shell** will search for it in each directory of the PATH global environment.
If a match is found, it will execute the command, if not, it will display an error message.

### Manpage

To read the Manpage of the simple shell, use :
```
man ./man_1_simple_shell
```

### Valgrind
To check on memory leaks, you can use :
```
valgrind ./simple_shell
```
To get more details about the leak, use :
```
valgrind --leak-check=full -v ./simple_shell
```

### Bugs
We have a few core dumped or invalid read in very specific cases.
Example :
```
echo "      bin/ls     /bin/ls    /bin/ls    " | ./simple_shell
```

### Authors
* Marc-Antoine Vannier <[Marcantoine4581](https://github.com/Marcantoine4581)>
* Thomas Borde <[thomasborde94](https://github.com/thomasborde94)>
